---
title: DO280-help
date: 2019-09-26T05:25:05.000Z
id: "26006613440812798"
draft: true
---
# 昨日の確認できてなかった点

```
[student@workstation ~]$ oc get pv
NAME               CAPACITY   ACCESS MODES   RECLAIM POLICY   STATUS    CLAIM                                   STORAGECLASS   REASON    AGE
etcd-vol2-volume   1G         RWO            Retain           Bound     openshift-ansible-service-broker/etcd                            1d
registry-volume    40Gi       RWX            Retain           Bound     default/registry-claim                                           1d
[student@workstation ~]$ ov get pvc
bash: ov: command not found...
[student@workstation ~]$ oc get pvc
NAME             STATUS    VOLUME            CAPACITY   ACCESS MODES   STORAGECLASS   AGE
registry-claim   Bound     registry-volume   40Gi       RWX                           1d

[student@workstation ~]$ oc set --help
Configure application resources 

These commands help you make changes to existing application resources.

Usage:
  oc set COMMAND [options]

Replication controllers, deployments, and daemon sets:
  env             Update environment variables on a pod template
  resources       Update resource requests/limits on objects with pod templates
  volumes         Update volumes on a pod template
  probe           Update a probe on a pod template
  deployment-hook Update a deployment hook on a deployment config
  image           Update image of a pod template

Manage secrets:
  build-secret    Update a build secret on a build config

Manage application flows:
  image-lookup    Change how images are resolved when deploying applications
  triggers        Update the triggers on one or more objects
  build-hook      Update a build hook on a build config

Control load balancing:
  route-backends  Update the backends for a route

Use "oc set <command> --help" for more information about a given command.
Use "oc options" for a list of global command-line options (applies to all commands).
[student@workstation ~]$ oc set volumes --help
Update volumes on a pod template 

This command can add, update or remove volumes from containers for any object that has a pod
template (deployment configs, replication controllers, or pods). You can list volumes in pod or any
object that has a pod template. You can specify a single object or multiple, and alter volumes on
all containers or just those that match a given name. 

If you alter a volume setting on a deployment config, a deployment will be triggered. Changing a
replication controller will not affect running pods, and you cannot change a pod's volumes once it
has been created. 

Volume types include: 

  * emptydir (empty directory) default : A directory allocated when the pod is created on a local
host, is removed when the pod is deleted and is not copied across servers  
  * hostdir (host directory): A directory with specific path on any host (requires elevated
privileges)  
  * persistentvolumeclaim or pvc (persistent volume claim): Link the volume directory in the
container to a persistent volume claim you have allocated by name - a persistent volume claim is a
request to allocate storage. Note that if your claim hasn't been bound, your pods will not start.  
  * secret (mounted secret): Secret volumes mount a named secret to the provided directory.  

For descriptions on other volume types, see https://docs.openshift.com

Aliases:
volumes, volume

Usage:
  oc set volumes RESOURCE/NAME --add|--remove|--list [options]

Examples:
  # List volumes defined on all deployment configs in the current project
  oc set volume dc --all
  
  # Add a new empty dir volume to deployment config (dc) 'registry' mounted under
  # /var/lib/registry
  oc set volume dc/registry --add --mount-path=/var/lib/registry
  
  # Use an existing persistent volume claim (pvc) to overwrite an existing volume 'v1'
  oc set volume dc/registry --add --name=v1 -t pvc --claim-name=pvc1 --overwrite
  
  # Remove volume 'v1' from deployment config 'registry'
  oc set volume dc/registry --remove --name=v1
  
  # Create a new persistent volume claim that overwrites an existing volume 'v1'
  oc set volume dc/registry --add --name=v1 -t pvc --claim-size=1G --overwrite
  
  # Change the mount point for volume 'v1' to /data
  oc set volume dc/registry --add --name=v1 -m /data --overwrite
  
  # Modify the deployment config by removing volume mount "v1" from container "c1"
  # (and by removing the volume "v1" if no other containers have volume mounts that reference it)
  oc set volume dc/registry --remove --name=v1 --containers=c1
  
  # Add new volume based on a more complex volume source (Git repo, AWS EBS, GCE PD,
  # Ceph, Gluster, NFS, ISCSI, ...)
  oc set volume dc/registry --add -m /repo --source=<json-string>

Options:
      --add=false: If true, add volume and/or volume mounts for containers
      --all=false: If true, select all resources in the namespace of the specified resource types
      --allow-missing-template-keys=true: If true, ignore any errors in templates when a field or
map key is missing in the template. Only applies to golang and jsonpath output formats.
      --claim-class='': StorageClass to use for the persistent volume claim
      --claim-mode='ReadWriteOnce': Set the access mode of the claim to be created. Valid values are
ReadWriteOnce (rwo), ReadWriteMany (rwm), or ReadOnlyMany (rom)
      --claim-name='': Persistent volume claim name. Must be provided for persistentVolumeClaim
volume type
      --claim-size='': If specified along with a persistent volume type, create a new claim with the
given size in bytes. Accepts SI notation: 10, 10G, 10Gi
      --configmap-name='': Name of the persisted config map. Must be provided for configmap volume
type
      --confirm=false: If true, confirm that you really want to remove multiple volumes
  -c, --containers='*': The names of containers in the selected pod templates to change - may use
wildcards
      --default-mode='': The default mode bits to create files with. Can be between 0000 and 0777.
Defaults to 0644.
      --dry-run=false: If true, only print the object that would be sent, without sending it.
  -f, --filename=[]: Filename, directory, or URL to file to use to edit the resource.
      --list=false: If true, list volumes and volume mounts for containers
      --local=false: If true, set image will NOT contact api-server but run locally.
  -m, --mount-path='': Mount path inside the container. Optional param for --add or --remove
      --name='': Name of the volume. If empty, auto generated for add operation
      --no-headers=false: When using the default or custom-column output format, don't print headers
(default print headers).
  -o, --output='': Output format. One of:
json|yaml|wide|name|custom-columns=...|custom-columns-file=...|go-template=...|go-template-file=...|jsonpath=...|jsonpath-file=...
See custom columns [http://kubernetes.io/docs/user-guide/kubectl-overview/#custom-columns], golang
template [http://golang.org/pkg/text/template/#pkg-overview] and jsonpath template
[http://kubernetes.io/docs/user-guide/jsonpath].
      --overwrite=false: If true, replace existing volume source with the provided name and/or
volume mount for the given resource
      --path='': Host path. Must be provided for hostPath volume type
      --remove=false: If true, remove volume and/or volume mounts for containers
      --secret-name='': Name of the persisted secret. Must be provided for secret volume type
  -l, --selector='': Selector (label query) to filter on
  -a, --show-all=true: When printing, show all resources (false means hide terminated pods.)
      --show-labels=false: When printing, show all labels as the last column (default hide labels
column)
      --sort-by='': If non-empty, sort list types using this field specification.  The field
specification is expressed as a JSONPath expression (e.g. '{.metadata.name}'). The field in the API
resource specified by this JSONPath expression must be an integer or a string.
      --source='': Details of volume source as json string. This can be used if the required volume
type is not supported by --type option. (e.g.: '{"gitRepo": {"repository": <git-url>, "revision":
<commit-hash>}}')
      --sub-path='': Path within the local volume from which the container's volume should be
mounted. Optional param for --add or --remove
      --template='': Template string or path to template file to use when -o=go-template,
-o=go-template-file. The template format is golang templates
[http://golang.org/pkg/text/template/#pkg-overview].
  -t, --type='': Type of the volume source for add operation. Supported options: emptyDir, hostPath,
secret, configmap, persistentVolumeClaim

Use "oc options" for a list of global command-line options (applies to all commands).
[student@workstation ~]$ man showmount


[student@workstation ~]$ oc help
OpenShift Client 

This client helps you develop, build, deploy, and run your applications on any OpenShift or
Kubernetes compatible platform. It also includes the administrative commands for managing a cluster
under the 'adm' subcommand.

Basic Commands:
  types           An introduction to concepts and types
  login           Log in to a server
  new-project     Request a new project
  new-app         Create a new application
  status          Show an overview of the current project
  project         Switch to another project
  projects        Display existing projects
  explain         Documentation of resources
  cluster         Start and stop OpenShift cluster

Build and Deploy Commands:
  rollout         Manage a Kubernetes deployment or OpenShift deployment config
  rollback        Revert part of an application back to a previous deployment
  new-build       Create a new build configuration
  start-build     Start a new build
  cancel-build    Cancel running, pending, or new builds
  import-image    Imports images from a Docker registry
  tag             Tag existing images into image streams

Application Management Commands:
  get             Display one or many resources
  describe        Show details of a specific resource or group of resources
  edit            Edit a resource on the server
  set             Commands that help set specific features on objects
  label           Update the labels on a resource
  annotate        Update the annotations on a resource
  expose          Expose a replicated application as a service or route
  delete          Delete one or more resources
  scale           Change the number of pods in a deployment
  autoscale       Autoscale a deployment config, deployment, replication controller, or replica set
  secrets         Manage secrets
  serviceaccounts Manage service accounts in your project

Troubleshooting and Debugging Commands:
  logs            Print the logs for a resource
  rsh             Start a shell session in a pod
  rsync           Copy files between local filesystem and a pod
  port-forward    Forward one or more local ports to a pod
  debug           Launch a new instance of a pod for debugging
  exec            Execute a command in a container
  proxy           Run a proxy to the Kubernetes API server
  attach          Attach to a running container
  run             Run a particular image on the cluster
  cp              Copy files and directories to and from containers.

Advanced Commands:
  adm             Tools for managing a cluster
  create          Create a resource from a file or from stdin.
  replace         Replace a resource by filename or stdin
  apply           Apply a configuration to a resource by filename or stdin
  patch           Update field(s) of a resource using strategic merge patch
  process         Process a template into list of resources
  export          Export resources so they can be used elsewhere
  extract         Extract secrets or config maps to disk
  idle            Idle scalable resources
  observe         Observe changes to resources and react to them (experimental)
  policy          Manage authorization policy
  auth            Inspect authorization
  convert         Convert config files between different API versions
  import          Commands that import applications
  image           Useful commands for managing images

Settings Commands:
  logout          End the current server session
  config          Change configuration files for the client
  whoami          Return information about the current session
  completion      Output shell completion code for the specified shell (bash or zsh)

Other Commands:
  ex              Experimental commands under active development
  help            Help about any command
  plugin          Runs a command-line plugin
  version         Display client and server versions

Use "oc <command> --help" for more information about a given command.
Use "oc options" for a list of global command-line options (applies to all commands).

[student@workstation ~]$ oc expose --help
Expose containers internally as services or externally via routes 

There is also the ability to expose a deployment configuration, replication controller, service, or
pod as a new service on a specified port. If no labels are specified, the new object will re-use the
labels from the object it exposes.

Usage:
  oc expose (-f FILENAME | TYPE NAME) [--port=port] [--protocol=TCP|UDP]
[--target-port=number-or-name] [--name=name] [--external-ip=external-ip-of-service] [--type=type]
[options]

Examples:
  # Create a route based on service nginx. The new route will re-use nginx's labels
  oc expose service nginx
  
  # Create a route and specify your own label and route name
  oc expose service nginx -l name=myroute --name=fromdowntown
  
  # Create a route and specify a hostname
  oc expose service nginx --hostname=www.example.com
  
  # Create a route with wildcard
  oc expose service nginx --hostname=x.example.com --wildcard-policy=Subdomain
  This would be equivalent to *.example.com. NOTE: only hosts are matched by the wildcard,
subdomains would not be included.
  
  # Expose a deployment configuration as a service and use the specified port
  oc expose dc ruby-hello-world --port=8080
  
  # Expose a service as a route in the specified path
  oc expose service nginx --path=/nginx
  
  # Expose a service using different generators
  oc expose service nginx --name=exposed-svc --port=12201 --protocol="TCP" --generator="service/v2"
  oc expose service nginx --name=my-route --port=12201 --generator="route/v1"
  
  Exposing a service using the "route/v1" generator (default) will create a new exposed route with
the "--name" provided
  (or the name of the service otherwise). You may not specify a "--protocol" or "--target-port"
option when using this generator.

Options:
      --allow-missing-template-keys=true: If true, ignore any errors in templates when a field or
map key is missing in the template. Only applies to golang and jsonpath output formats.
      --cluster-ip='': ClusterIP to be assigned to the service. Leave empty to auto-allocate, or set
to 'None' to create a headless service.
      --container-port='': Synonym for --target-port
      --dry-run=false: If true, only print the object that would be sent, without sending it.
      --external-ip='': Additional external IP address (not managed by Kubernetes) to accept for the
service. If this IP is routed to a node, the service can be accessed by this IP in addition to its
generated service IP.
  -f, --filename=[]: Filename, directory, or URL to files identifying the resource to expose a
service
      --generator='': The name of the API generator to use. Defaults to "route/v1". Available
generators include "service/v1", "service/v2", and "route/v1". "service/v1" will automatically name
the port "default", while "service/v2" will leave it unnamed.
      --hostname='': Set a hostname for the new route
  -l, --labels='': Labels to apply to the service created by this call.
      --load-balancer-ip='': IP to assign to the Load Balancer. If empty, an ephemeral IP will be
created and used (cloud-provider specific).
      --name='': The name for the newly created object.
      --no-headers=false: When using the default or custom-column output format, don't print headers
(default print headers).
  -o, --output='': Output format. One of:
json|yaml|wide|name|custom-columns=...|custom-columns-file=...|go-template=...|go-template-file=...|jsonpath=...|jsonpath-file=...
See custom columns [http://kubernetes.io/docs/user-guide/kubectl-overview/#custom-columns], golang
template [http://golang.org/pkg/text/template/#pkg-overview] and jsonpath template
[http://kubernetes.io/docs/user-guide/jsonpath].
      --overrides='': An inline JSON override for the generated object. If this is non-empty, it is
used to override the generated object. Requires that the object supply a valid apiVersion field.
      --path='': Set a path for the new route
      --port='': The port that the resource should serve on.
      --protocol='': The network protocol for the service to be created. Default is 'TCP'.
      --record=false: Record current kubectl command in the resource annotation. If set to false, do
not record the command. If set to true, record the command. If not set, default to updating the
existing annotation value only if one already exists.
  -R, --recursive=false: Process the directory used in -f, --filename recursively. Useful when you
want to manage related manifests organized within the same directory.
      --save-config=false: If true, the configuration of current object will be saved in its
annotation. Otherwise, the annotation will be unchanged. This flag is useful when you want to
perform kubectl apply on this object in the future.
      --selector='': A label selector to use for this service. Only equality-based selector
requirements are supported. If empty (the default) infer the selector from the replication
controller or replica set.)
      --session-affinity='': If non-empty, set the session affinity for the service to this; legal
values: 'None', 'ClientIP'
  -a, --show-all=true: When printing, show all resources (false means hide terminated pods.)
      --show-labels=false: When printing, show all labels as the last column (default hide labels
column)
      --sort-by='': If non-empty, sort list types using this field specification.  The field
specification is expressed as a JSONPath expression (e.g. '{.metadata.name}'). The field in the API
resource specified by this JSONPath expression must be an integer or a string.
      --target-port='': Name or number for the port on the container that the service should direct
traffic to. Optional.
      --template='': Template string or path to template file to use when -o=go-template,
-o=go-template-file. The template format is golang templates
[http://golang.org/pkg/text/template/#pkg-overview].
      --type='': Type for this service: ClusterIP, NodePort, LoadBalancer, or ExternalName. Default
is 'ClusterIP'.
      --wildcard-policy='': Sets the WildcardPolicy for the hostname, the default is "None". Valid
values are "None" and "Subdomain"

Use "oc options" for a list of global command-line options (applies to all commands).

[student@workstation ~]$ oc adm policy --help
Manage policy on the cluster 

These commands allow you to assign and manage the roles and policies that apply to users. The
reconcile commands allow you to reset and upgrade your system policies to the latest default
policies. 

To see more information on roles and policies, use the 'get' and 'describe' commands on the
following resources: 'clusterroles', 'clusterpolicy', 'clusterrolebindings', 'roles', 'policy',
'rolebindings', and 'scc'.

Discover:
  who-can                         List who can perform the specified action on a resource
  scc-subject-review              Check whether a user or a ServiceAccount can create a Pod.
  scc-review                      Checks which ServiceAccount can create a Pod

Manage project membership:
  remove-user                     Remove user from the current project
  remove-group                    Remove group from the current project

Assign roles to users and groups:
  add-role-to-user                Add a role to users or serviceaccounts for the current project
  add-role-to-group               Add a role to groups for the current project
  remove-role-from-user           Remove a role from users for the current project
  remove-role-from-group          Remove a role from groups for the current project

Assign cluster roles to users and groups:
  add-cluster-role-to-user        Add a role to users for all projects in the cluster
  add-cluster-role-to-group       Add a role to groups for all projects in the cluster
  remove-cluster-role-from-user   Remove a role from users for all projects in the cluster
  remove-cluster-role-from-group  Remove a role from groups for all projects in the cluster

Manage policy on pods and containers:
  add-scc-to-user                 Add users or serviceaccount to a security context constraint
  add-scc-to-group                Add groups to a security context constraint
  remove-scc-from-user            Remove user from scc
  remove-scc-from-group           Remove group from scc

Upgrade and repair system policy:
  reconcile-cluster-roles         Update cluster roles to match the recommended bootstrap policy
  reconcile-cluster-role-bindings Update cluster role bindings to match the recommended bootstrap
policy
  reconcile-sccs                  Replace cluster SCCs to match the recommended bootstrap policy

Use "oc adm policy <command> --help" for more information about a given command.
Use "oc adm options" for a list of global command-line options (applies to all commands).
[student@workstation ~]$ 

[student@workstation ~]$ oc adm policy remove-cluster-role-from-group --help
Remove a role from groups for all projects in the cluster

Usage:
  oc adm policy remove-cluster-role-from-group <role> <group> [group]... [options]

Options:
      --allow-missing-template-keys=true: If true, ignore any errors in templates when a field or
map key is missing in the template. Only applies to golang and jsonpath output formats.
      --dry-run=false: If true, only print the object that would be sent, without sending it.
      --no-headers=false: When using the default or custom-column output format, don't print headers
(default print headers).
  -o, --output='': Output format. One of:
json|yaml|wide|name|custom-columns=...|custom-columns-file=...|go-template=...|go-template-file=...|jsonpath=...|jsonpath-file=...
See custom columns [http://kubernetes.io/docs/user-guide/kubectl-overview/#custom-columns], golang
template [http://golang.org/pkg/text/template/#pkg-overview] and jsonpath template
[http://kubernetes.io/docs/user-guide/jsonpath].
      --rolebinding-name='': Name of the rolebinding to modify. If left empty it will operate on all
rolebindings
  -a, --show-all=true: When printing, show all resources (false means hide terminated pods.)
      --show-labels=false: When printing, show all labels as the last column (default hide labels
column)
      --sort-by='': If non-empty, sort list types using this field specification.  The field
specification is expressed as a JSONPath expression (e.g. '{.metadata.name}'). The field in the API
resource specified by this JSONPath expression must be an integer or a string.
      --template='': Template string or path to template file to use when -o=go-template,
-o=go-template-file. The template format is golang templates
[http://golang.org/pkg/text/template/#pkg-overview].

Use "oc adm options" for a list of global command-line options (applies to all commands).


[student@workstation ~]$ oc scale --help
Set a new size for a deployment or replication controller 

Scale also allows users to specify one or more preconditions for the scale action. If
--current-replicas or --resource-version is specified, it is validated before the scale is
attempted, and it is guaranteed that the precondition holds true when the scale is sent to the
server. 

Note that scaling a deployment configuration with no deployments will update the desired replicas in
the configuration template. 

Supported resources: ["deployment" "replicaset" "replicationcontroller" "job" "statefulset"
"deploymentconfig"]

Usage:
  oc scale [--resource-version=version] [--current-replicas=count] --replicas=COUNT (-f FILENAME |
TYPE NAME) [options]

Examples:
  # Scale replication controller named 'foo' to 3.
  oc scale --replicas=3 replicationcontrollers foo
  
  # If the replication controller named foo's current size is 2, scale foo to 3.
  oc scale --current-replicas=2 --replicas=3 replicationcontrollers foo
  
  # Scale the latest deployment of 'bar'. In case of no deployment, bar's template
  # will be scaled instead.
  oc scale --replicas=10 dc bar

Options:
      --all=false: Select all resources in the namespace of the specified resource types
      --current-replicas=-1: Precondition for current size. Requires that the current size of the
resource match this value in order to scale.
  -f, --filename=[]: Filename, directory, or URL to files identifying the resource to set a new size
      --include-extended-apis=true: If true, include definitions of new APIs via calls to the API
server. [default true]
  -o, --output='': Output mode. Use "-o name" for shorter output (resource/name).
      --record=false: Record current kubectl command in the resource annotation. If set to false, do
not record the command. If set to true, record the command. If not set, default to updating the
existing annotation value only if one already exists.
  -R, --recursive=false: Process the directory used in -f, --filename recursively. Useful when you
want to manage related manifests organized within the same directory.
      --replicas=-1: The new desired number of replicas. Required.
      --resource-version='': Precondition for resource version. Requires that the current resource
version match this value in order to scale.
  -l, --selector='': Selector (label query) to filter on, supports '=', '==', and '!='.(e.g. -l
key1=value1,key2=value2)
      --timeout=0s: The length of time to wait before giving up on a scale operation, zero means
don't wait. Any other values should contain a corresponding time unit (e.g. 1s, 2m, 3h).

Use "oc options" for a list of global command-line options (applies to all commands).


[student@workstation ~]$ oc new-project scaling --display-name=scale-disp
Already on project "scaling" on server "https://master.lab.example.com:443".

You can add applications to this project with the 'new-app' command. For example, try:

    oc new-app centos/ruby-22-centos7~https://github.com/openshift/ruby-ex.git

to build a new example application in Ruby.
[student@workstation ~]$ oc get project
NAME       DISPLAY NAME   STATUS
hogehoge   hoge           Active
scaling    scale-disp     Active



[student@workstation ~]$ oc adm top --help
Show usage statistics of resources on the server 

This command analyzes resources managed by the platform and presents current usage statistics.

Usage:
  oc adm top [options]

Available Commands:
  images       Show usage statistics for Images
  imagestreams Show usage statistics for ImageStreams
  node         Display Resource (CPU/Memory/Storage) usage of nodes
  pod          Display Resource (CPU/Memory/Storage) usage of pods

Use "oc adm <command> --help" for more information about a given command.
Use "oc adm options" for a list of global command-line options (applies to all commands).




```
